---
title: LIRA Treasury Bond tokens, Amplifying the Value of the Satoshi LIRA Ecosystem
date:
draft: false
weight: 60
url: '/lira-treasury-bonds'
---

**Introduction to TB Tokens**

Treasury Bond (TB) tokens play a crucial role in amplifying the value
of the Satoshi LIRA ecosystem. These tokens have an intrinsic value in
LIRA, guaranteed by smart contracts, and serve as a mechanism to
enhance the stability and strength of the ecosystem. With a burn
mechanism in place and the freedom to interact with the smart
contract, TB token holders have the power to increase the intrinsic
value of their holdings and withdraw LIRA tokens as needed.

**Types of TB Tokens**

There are three types of TB Tokens, each
representing a specific portion of the LIRA supply:

    TBg (gold)   = 100.000.000.00 LIRA
    TBs (silver) =   1.000.000,00 LIRA
    TBb (bronze)=     100.000,00 LIRA

**Strategic Inflation and Deflation of LIRA Supply**

TB tokens hold a strategic function within the ecosystem, allowing for
the inflation or deflation of the circulating supply of LIRA based on
the needs of the ecosystem. Through voting on the decentralized
autonomous organization (DAO), participants can determine the
percentages of division of LIRA for the creation of TB tokens, thereby
influencing the amount of LIRA circulating. This governance mechanism
ensures that the ecosystem remains adaptable and responsive to the
changing needs of its participants.

**Creation of TB Tokens from LIRA Blocks**

When new LIRA tokens are created through any of the three mechanisms
explained previously, they are divided for the creation of TB tokens.
In this process, 80% of the new LIRA block is allocated to the
creation of TB tokens. 
The division of LIRA sent to create TB tokens is distributed as follows:

    50% for TB Gold creation
    30% for TB Silver creation
    20% for TB Bronze creation.

The LIRA tokens used for minting TB Tokens are locked within a
designated vault, ensuring their secure storage.

**TB Tokenomic Distribution**

The distribution of TB tokens and their associated benefits is
structured as follows:

    35% goes to the LIRA ecosystem reward division, incentivizing
        ecosystem participants and contributing to its overall growth.
    25% is allocated to TB LP staking, promoting liquidity provision and
        facilitating efficient trading within the ecosystem.
    25% is dedicated to limited edition TB minting, where select TB tokens
        are transformed into limited edition variants and sold in fiat
        currency on a quarterly basis. The wealth generated from these sales
        is entirely injected back into the Satoshi LIRA ecosystem.
    10% is allocated to the LIRA team, ensuring ongoing development,
        support, and maintenance of the ecosystem.
    5% is dedicated to liquidity, enhancing the overall liquidity pool to
        support seamless transactions and trading activities.

**Limited Edition TB Tokens**

The TB tokens collected in the limited edition fund are periodically
transformed into limited edition TB tokens, which are subsequently
sold on the market in fiat currency. The entirety of the wealth
generated from these sales is reinvested into the Satoshi LIRA
ecosystem. The distribution of the proceeds is as follows: 20% to the
Satoshi LIRA fiat reserve, 20% to The Hive fund, 15% to the DAO
emergency fund, 15% to the DAO fund, and 30% to the LIRA ecosystem
reward division.

**Ensuring Stability and Support**

Through the Satoshi LIRA reserve, the ecosystem aims to bolster the
stability and strength of the LIRA currency, providing additional
stability for LIRA coin holders. The DAO's emergency fund serves as a
safety net, enabling the ecosystem to intervene and support members
during global emergencies. Managed through voting by the DAO, the
emergency fund provides immediate assistance to ecosystem participants
in times of difficulty.


---

The implementation of Treasury Bond (TB) tokens within the Satoshi
LIRA ecosystem introduces a dynamic mechanism for amplifying its
value. With intrinsic value guaranteed by smart contracts, TB tokens
empower participants to increase the intrinsic value of their holdings
and interact with the smart contract to withdraw LIRAtokens. Strategic
voting within the DAO allows for the inflation or deflation of the
LIRA circulating supply based on the needs of the ecosystem. The
creation of TB tokens from LIRA blocks further contributes to the
ecosystem's stability and growth.

---